- [Instructor] So now, it's time
to actually see the builder pattern in action.
I'd like you to go ahead and jump into your IDE,
and open up source, main, java, and our base package,
and we're going to create a new package
and we're going to call this one builder.
Now, in the builder package, we're going to start
with a simple Java Class
and we're going to call that Contact.
Now, to our Contact class,
we're going to create a couple attributes,
so firstName, lastName, and emailAddress.
And obviously, you can imagine
that a contact would have a lot more,
but for the purpose of this, this will work just fine.
Now, I'm going to generate a few methods here,
first thing I'm going to do is create a no-args constructor,
and I like to throw a super in there.
And then, I'm going to create an all-args constructor,
and finally, I'm going to do Getters and Setters.
And once again, your IDE should have some way
to generate all of this.
If it doesn't, you can just type it in,
but I used a speed key there
to do that in IntelliJ Ultimate Edition.
Now, what I'd like to do is open up the AppController
and we're going to create a GetMapping
and it is going to be at slash presidents
and we will return a List of Contacts
called getPresidents and we will just create a little bit
of context here, create a new Array list.
Okay, so, the first thing that we're going to do here
is we are going to create a new Contact.
Now, this is what we would do if we didn't have
an all-args constructor.
We would set Contact FirstName and we're going to set this one
equal to George,
and contact that LastName equal to Washington.
Simple enough, but as you can imagine, if that list
of parameters got bigger,
it'd be a little bit more time-consuming.
We'll go ahead and add this to our contacts.
Not a big deal, but again, imagine if there were 15
or 20 fields on that contact, which is very valid.
Now, let's show what happens
when we do an all-args constructor.
So, contacts.add(new Contact) and now we have to remember
the order, so I think it's first name, last name,
and we're not going to put an email
so we'll just put null in here.
Again, simple enough, but if there's a lot of fields here,
this becomes very complicated.
You got to know where the nulls are,
you've got to know which fields are which,
and it just starts to lead to sprawl.
This is where the builder pattern really starts
to add some cool value to what we're trying to do.
Let me go ahead and return our contacts here
before we go any further,
just to clean up all of that error state.
So, let's go back to our builder
and we can look at the fields in our Contact.
We'll create a new Class,
and this one we're going to call ContactBuilder.
You're going to put the same fields on this,
so private String firstName.
So now, we're going to go ahead and build our builder.
We're going to generate Setters.
We're going to generate one for each of our fields.
So now, we need to do a little bit of replacement,
so the first thing we do is we're going to replace void
with ContactBuilder, and we will replace all of those
in our class, and obviously, you could've typed those in
if you wanted to, and then we will simply do a return this.
We're going to add that to each of our methods.
Now, we're going to build a public contact,
buildContact method and it will return a new Contact
firstName, lastName, emailAddress.
The beauty here is that if any of these fields are null,
null will get populated.
We don't really have to think about where the nulls go.
We don't have to think about really much of anything
other than just building the object and returning it.
So, let's take a look at this in action.
To do this, we're going to
do a contacts.add(new ContactBuilder().setFirstName
and we will set this to Thomas.setLastName("Jefferson")
and then we will call build, and at that point, we're done.
Now the beauty here is we still get one line,
like we did before, but we actually have fields
that we're populating instead of trying
to figure out where the null is.
Obviously, having one line of code tends
to reach your total lines of code
and it makes it a little bit cleaner to read
because I don't have to have multiple lines
to figure out that I'm just creating a simple object.
So, we can go ahead and run our application
and while that's starting up, we'll jump to our terminal
and I'll do an http on localhost:8080.
Again, you can use cURL if you want to
if you don't have HTTPie installed.
And slash presidents and I get my data out
as I would expect and it's exactly the value
of the builder pattern.
Again, use your imagination, add a bunch more fields
to this contact, and you really start to see the value
of the builder, especially when dealing with simple objects
that can be constructed in multiple ways
or with null fields involved.